README.md, before:

# **Pixis**  &nbsp; ![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/microservice-tools/pixis.svg?branch=dev)

Pixis is a flexible and lightweight Python 3 module that can generate server and client files for your REST API. You provide an [OpenAPI3 Specification](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md), we generate the skeleton code to get your API up and running.

Our system allows for simple and flexible customization as well. The default [Jinja2](http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/2.10/) templates can be easily modifed and/or replaced, so you can generate exactly the code you want. Our build file lets you specify exactly how you want your project to look like, and with a little Python, you can add custom functionality to Pixis, and even generate code in a new language!

### Currently supported server languages: 
- [Python-Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/)

### Currently supported client languages: 
- [TypeScript-Angular2](https://angular.io/)
---

# Table of Contents
* [Virtual Environment Setup](#virtual-environment-setup)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Generating a Server](#generating-a-server)
* [Generating a Client](#generating-a-client)
* [Specification File](#specification-file)
* [Configuration File](#configuration-file)

# Virtual Environment Setup
## Linux Users:
1. Install latest version of virtualenv using: `sudo pip3 install virtualenv`
2. Create virtual environment: 
`virtualenv venv`
- Activate virtual environment: 
`source venv/bin/activate`
- Deactivate virtual environment:
`deactivate`
# Installation
1. Clone this project
2. Activate virtualenv
3. Two options to install: 
    - Using pip3:
        - `pip3 install pixis/`
    - Using setup.py:
        - `cd pixis`
        - `python3 setup.py develop`
- Uninstall:
    - `pip3 uninstall pixis`

# Usage
TODO: build file section

**Default settings for Pixis:**
- Looks for a user-defined build file named **build.py** in the current working directory. If it exists, run it
- If specification file is not specified in the build file, looks for a specification file named **swagger.yaml** in the current working directory
- If a folder named **templates/** exists in current working directory, then Pixis will use templates inside that folder instead of default templates, as long as those templates are the same name as the defaults
- Pixis will generate a Flask server directory named **build** in the current working directory

**Run Pixis using default settings with:** `$ pixis`

**Run Pixis using a build file:** `$ pixis build.py`

Sample build file with available options can be found in our repository's **sample/** directory (documentation soon!)

---

## **Quick Start**

We recommend using a virtual environment when generating and testing generated code.

## Generating a server

This example will use our **sample/python-flask-server/** directory, containing **build.py** and **swagger.yaml**

1.   `$ cd sample/python-flask-server/`
2.   `$ pixis [build.py]`
      - A directory named **build/** should have been generated
3.   `$ cd build`
      - The Flask server dependencies will be installed
4.   `$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt`
      To run the server:
5.   `$ python3 -m flask_server`
      - A server should be opened on your localhost
      - To test a route, append to the basepath: `/pet/0`
      - You should see the route printed onto the screen
      - Future versions will have more exciting examples!
    
To run in a docker container:
-   `$ docker build -t your_tag .`
-   `$ docker run -p 8080:8080 your_tag .`

## Generating a client
To use the Angular2/TypeScript client, some prerequisites need to be installed. Earlier versions are untested.
- **node.js** >= 8.6.0 
    - https://nodejs.org/en/
- **npm** >= 5.6.0 
    - installed with node.js
    - get latest version with: `[sudo] npm install npm -g`
- **angular/cli** >= 1.4.6 
    - `[sudo] npm install -g @angular/cli@latest`

---

This example will use our ready to go Angular2 project **sample-project** in **sample/typescript-angular-client**. Our project contains edits (imports and API usage) that a newly generated Angular2 project will not have. Instruction for generating a new Angular2 project can be found [here](https://cli.angular.io/).

**sample/typescript-angular-client** includes **build.py** and **swagger.yaml**

```
$ cd sample/typescript-angular-client
$ pixis build.py
$ mv services/ sample-project/src/
$ cd sample-project
$ npm install
```
To run the client: `npm start` or `ng serve`
- Go to the url that the client is being served to (ex. http://localhost:4200)
- If you are also running a server on localhost, you will run into a CORS issue which can be resolved using a google chrome extension (https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/allow-control-allow-origi/nlfbmbojpeacfghkpbjhddihlkkiljbi?utm_source=chrome-app-launcher-info-dialog)
- If using our modified angular2 component files, open console (f12) and you should see **getPetById(0)**, meaning that the client is using the generated files. The server will also receive the requests.

To run in a docker container:
- `$ docker build -t your_tag .`
- `$ docker run -p 4200:4200 your_tag .`


# Specification File
Specification file according to OpenAPI 3.0 Specification guidelines
https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md

# Configuration File (build.py)
The configuration file can be used in order to specify the language that the user wants to generate, the specification file to be used, and the output directory name for the generated code.

Please refer to **sample/build.py** for details.

1. `SPEC`: refers to the name of the specification file
2. `LANGUAGE`: refers to the language the user wants to generate
    - only python generation is available for server as of now
    - only typescript generation is available for client as of now

Commit message:

Added note about possible Mac OSX issue.
See issue #4 for more details.

README.md, after:

# **Pixis**  &nbsp; ![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/microservice-tools/pixis.svg?branch=dev)

Pixis is a flexible and lightweight Python 3 module that can generate server and client files for your REST API. You provide an [OpenAPI3 Specification](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md), we generate the skeleton code to get your API up and running.

Our system allows for simple and flexible customization as well. The default [Jinja2](http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/2.10/) templates can be easily modifed and/or replaced, so you can generate exactly the code you want. Our build file lets you specify exactly how you want your project to look like, and with a little Python, you can add custom functionality to Pixis, and even generate code in a new language!

### Currently supported server languages: 
- [Python-Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/)

### Currently supported client languages: 
- [TypeScript-Angular2](https://angular.io/)
---

# Table of Contents
* [Virtual Environment Setup](#virtual-environment-setup)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Generating a Server](#generating-a-server)
* [Generating a Client](#generating-a-client)
* [Specification File](#specification-file)
* [Configuration File](#configuration-file)

# Virtual Environment Setup
## Linux & Mac Users:
1. Install latest version of virtualenv using: `sudo pip3 install virtualenv`
2. Create virtual environment: 
`virtualenv venv`
- Activate virtual environment: 
`source venv/bin/activate`
- Deactivate virtual environment:
`deactivate`
# Installation
1. Clone this project
2. Activate virtualenv
3. Two options to install: 
    - Using pip3:
        - `pip3 install pixis/`
    - Using setup.py:
        - `cd pixis`
        - `python3 setup.py develop`
- Uninstall:
    - `pip3 uninstall pixis`
# Note: If you are having issues installing on Mac OSX try
    - pip3 install pbr certifi
# Usage
TODO: build file section

**Default settings for Pixis:**
- Looks for a user-defined build file named **build.py** in the current working directory. If it exists, run it
- If specification file is not specified in the build file, looks for a specification file named **swagger.yaml** in the current working directory
- If a folder named **templates/** exists in current working directory, then Pixis will use templates inside that folder instead of default templates, as long as those templates are the same name as the defaults
- Pixis will generate a Flask server directory named **build** in the current working directory

**Run Pixis using default settings with:** `$ pixis`

**Run Pixis using a build file:** `$ pixis build.py`

Sample build file with available options can be found in our repository's **sample/** directory (documentation soon!)

---

## **Quick Start**

We recommend using a virtual environment when generating and testing generated code.

## Generating a server

This example will use our **sample/python-flask-server/** directory, containing **build.py** and **swagger.yaml**

1.   `$ cd sample/python-flask-server/`
2.   `$ pixis [build.py]`
      - A directory named **build/** should have been generated
3.   `$ cd build`
      - The Flask server dependencies will be installed
4.   `$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt`
      To run the server:
5.   `$ python3 -m flask_server`
      - A server should be opened on your localhost
      - To test a route, append to the basepath: `/pet/0`
      - You should see the route printed onto the screen
      - Future versions will have more exciting examples!
    
To run in a docker container:
-   `$ docker build -t your_tag .`
-   `$ docker run -p 8080:8080 your_tag .`

## Generating a client
To use the Angular2/TypeScript client, some prerequisites need to be installed. Earlier versions are untested.
- **node.js** >= 8.6.0 
    - https://nodejs.org/en/
- **npm** >= 5.6.0 
    - installed with node.js
    - get latest version with: `[sudo] npm install npm -g`
- **angular/cli** >= 1.4.6 
    - `[sudo] npm install -g @angular/cli@latest`

---

This example will use our ready to go Angular2 project **sample-project** in **sample/typescript-angular-client**. Our project contains edits (imports and API usage) that a newly generated Angular2 project will not have. Instruction for generating a new Angular2 project can be found [here](https://cli.angular.io/).

**sample/typescript-angular-client** includes **build.py** and **swagger.yaml**

```
$ cd sample/typescript-angular-client
$ pixis build.py
$ mv services/ sample-project/src/
$ cd sample-project
$ npm install
```
To run the client: `npm start` or `ng serve`
- Go to the url that the client is being served to (ex. http://localhost:4200)
- If you are also running a server on localhost, you will run into a CORS issue which can be resolved using a google chrome extension (https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/allow-control-allow-origi/nlfbmbojpeacfghkpbjhddihlkkiljbi?utm_source=chrome-app-launcher-info-dialog)
- If using our modified angular2 component files, open console (f12) and you should see **getPetById(0)**, meaning that the client is using the generated files. The server will also receive the requests.

To run in a docker container:
- `$ docker build -t your_tag .`
- `$ docker run -p 4200:4200 your_tag .`


# Specification File
Specification file according to OpenAPI 3.0 Specification guidelines
https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md

# Configuration File (build.py)
The configuration file can be used in order to specify the language that the user wants to generate, the specification file to be used, and the output directory name for the generated code.

Please refer to **sample/build.py** for details.

1. `SPEC`: refers to the name of the specification file
2. `LANGUAGE`: refers to the language the user wants to generate
    - only python generation is available for server as of now
    - only typescript generation is available for client as of now
